Lolcat is a composite of two words, "lol" and "cat".
"Lol" stands for "Laugh out Loud" or "Laughing out Loud"; hence, lolcats are intended to be funny and to include jokes.
Lolcats images comprise a photo of a cat with a large caption characteristically set in a heavy sans serif font such as Impact or Arial Black.
The image is, on occasion, digitally edited for effect.
The caption generally acts as a speech balloon encompassing a comment from the cat, or as a description of the depicted scene.
The caption is intentionally written with deviations from standard English spelling and grammar, featuring "strangely-conjugated verbs, but a tendency to converge to a new set of rules in spelling and grammar".
The text parodies the grammar-poor patois stereotypically attributed to Internet slang.
Frequently, lolcat captions take the form of phrasal templates.
Some phrases have a known source, usually a well-known Internet meme, such as All your base are belong to us or Do not want, while others don't.
The language of lolcats has also been likened to baby talk, however it draws on a variety of linguistic resources, not just the imitation of baby talk.
Common themes include jokes of the form "Im in ur [noun], [verb]-ing ur [related noun]."
Many lolcat images capture cats performing characteristically human actions or appearing to use modern technology, such as computers.
There are several well-known lolcat images and single-word captions that have spawned many variations and imitations, including "Ceiling Cat" (see below).
Others include Fail (a cat with a slice of processed cheese on its face) and "I Can Has Cheezburger" (a portrait of a blue British Shorthair).
Another popular format is "[Adjective] cat is [adjective/noun]."
"Ceiling Cat" is a character spawned by the meme.
The original image was an image macro with a picture of a cat looking out of a hole in a ceiling, captioned "Ceiling Cat is watching you masturbate." There followed numerous examples with the format "Ceiling Cat is watching you [verb ending in / rhyming with -ate]" with Ceiling Cat superimposed in the upper left hand corner of an image macro depicting the appropriate action.
The underlying theme is that the cat is looking down on one, almost in a form of judgement.
"Ceiling Cat" and the corresponding "Basement Cat" (a black cat who lives in the basement) represent good and evil in the lolcat universe, and in some cases God and Satan, as in the LOLCat Bible Translation Project.
Variations on the lolcat concept include captioning photos of other animals in a similar style (e.g. loldogs for dogs, etc.).
In the game Minecraft, there is an option to change language settings to LOLCAT.
Another example is Polandball, which uses broken English, reminiscent of the lolcat meme.
LOLcats are image macros consisting of humorous photos of cats with superimposed text written in a form of broken English known as lolspeak.
The LOLcat meme gained much of its traction through the weekly ritual of Caturday on 4chan and I Can Has Cheezburger.
“There is more than enough EXIF data scattered around the internet to prove that cat macros are ancient, by internet standards.
Caturday, for example, was a meme on a 4chan.
org imageboard which originated around the beginning of 2005 as a protest against \”Furry Friday\” threads (In which basement-dwelling creeps would post anthropomorphic disney characters giving [sorry, gotta go family values at this point.”
The oldest of these is LOLcat, or LOLspeak – LOL being the textspeak acronym meaning ‘laugh out loud’, and cats being the most popular images shared online.
Starting in 2005, but with precursors dating as far back as the 1870s photography of Harry Pointer, LOLcats are images of cats overlaid with words in uppercase Impact or Arial Black.
These act as speech bubbles for the hilarious things cats say, such as “I Can Has Cheezeburger?” – the original phrase, which led to a website of the same name.
Recently, OxfordWords gave you the opportunity to generate your own LOLcat speak.
More recently dogs have got in on the act – specifically one breed, the Shiba Inu, who, since 2013, has used short phrases in multicoloured lowercase Comic Sans to express an internal monologue of wonderment in broken English.
Doge relies more on idiosyncratic grammar than (mis)spellings and textspeak – though these are sometimes employed too.
For example, a Doge meme relating to Wikipedia was captioned: “wow / many edits / so Internet meme / much wiki / very readers / how to article? / such neutral.”
Humans feature in language memes too.
“Y U No” Guy pairs uppercase textspeak with a stick figure sporting a furious facial expression taken from a character in Japanese manga series Gantz.
The original phrase was: “I TXT U / Y U NO TXT BAK!?”
Long before social media – which itself has only recently caught on to the power of image-sharing – pictures were widely distributed via the internet and helped spread memes.
Today, social media accelerates this process.
From Grumpy Cat to First World Problems to One Does Not Simply Walk into Mordor, images with captions make great online memes, as they are so shareable.
These examples all use standard English.

